#+TITLE: Perils of ADvice 

- /The Stanford Business School 5-Step Entrepreneurial Program/ The
  most recent business best seller/ 5-step program is commiditized
  knowledge. It's incredulious to believe that a course /anyone has
  access to/, a YouTube video /anyone could watch/ could proffer anyx
  knowledge of real value. 
  - /Advice and Lotto Tickets-  Another factor that makes
     advice hard to translate is luck and randomness. Most communicated
     advice is flawed: Even if the giver of the advice is innocuous,
     advice is like handing you the numbers to their winning lottery
     ticket. We don't see the people who failed with this advice.
  - /Rare Knowledge is Valuable/ 
  - /Business is predicated on Discovery/ What a million people know
    isn't worth knowing. Any real vaule of a business is based on
    discovering a "secret," - that is, somehting not many people know
    or believe to be true. Real value is made through Differentitade,
    rare, inimitable qualities of businesses. One-in-a-kind products. 
  - /Business Plans/ Business PLans are faulty thinking. THis was the
    case for Coca Cola, Tiffany, Kodak, and Aspirin. 
  - 
  - /Trial and Error/Empricism/Practice Over Theories/ You can learn
    creative experimentation can lead to outcomes you can't
    predict. Feel free to take all matter of risk in this domain. 

#+TITLE: Preferences part 1 

In /A la Recherche du temps perdu/, the novel by Marcel Proust, the
narrator tests the pleasures of modern living and learns that our
perceived upsides of these lifestyles don't match their realities. 

He tries to be an aristocrat, and after finding it dreadful, tries
pursues a lover, but also to no avail. These  situtaions he finds himself
made miserable, unfufilled, or just plain bored. 

The narrator finds fulfillemnt ultimately through art: not as a
painter or artist, but to view the world as an artist is by savouring the
world's simplistic elegance through a playful, childlike view. 

To not be a creature of habit, or to indulge in excess pleasures, for
they're even so short lasting.  

The Philosophy of Epicurus is somewhat an antecednt to
Proust. Epicurus' happy life helps is about helpng us  manage our
desires. 





#+TITLE: Effortless Action 

Having fun is a performance enhancing drug. 

Do things that serve a purpose and that you enjoy doing for it's own
sake. 

Life is meant to be savoured, not rushed thorugh. 

Don't something that you need to speedread, don't watch a video that
you have to watch at 2x, 

If you're not fully engaged or easily distracted, (if you have to
listen to music while doing something), switch to a better way or do
something else. 

How Productive you are might just mean how good you are at forcing
yourself to do something you don't like doing.

The optimal path is never the shortest one. 


It's foolish to complain you don't have enough time. 

We shouldn't know when the week begins or ends. Not being prisoner to
a schedule ro calendar, an alarm clock or wristwatch. 

Don't run for trains. 

Speed 
- Slowly as possible, to savor it, 
- Why read something that you’d want to Speeding reading, watching at 2x speed 
	- fast drivers just get to the next red light quickly 
Never do work you can’t get lost in 

#+TITLE: Information Overload 

Having so much information at our fingertips  wouldn't be so much of a
problem if it wasn't for our limited attention and mental capacity. 

Garbage begets garbage. Talk has become so cheap on the internet that
it's like a snake eating it's own tail. 

The problems of too much information: 
1) the paradox of choice- too many options makes choosing debilitating
2) "Tunneling" - focusing on smaller, inconsequential data, say, what
   shoes pedestratians are wearing while crossing the street, could
   make you miss the car that's driving down the lane. 

3) What a million people know itsn't worth knowing. 


So, the amount of information we consume regularly can reach a toxic
threshhold,- i.e. /we must be careful about how much we consume/

The important implication being, as well, that the ratio of
noise/signal skews  nonlinearly as the size of data increases.

Less is more. Focus on what's important. 
 

#+TITLE: Instincts

Most of the time our mental perpcetions lead us to error, 
but since being right is less important than being dead, than these
perceptions are hardly "irrational." 

For example, when we misperceive a length of rope to be a snake, which
we do even if we're wrong 99% of the time, it's because snakes are
threats to our survival. 

If having these insticts kept us alive, then who's care's if you're
wrong? I'd rather be alive than. 

Considering that although you may be right 99% of the time  holding
the inverse belief, /to mistake a snake for a rope/ one time has a
irreversible conesquenc. 

This is the basis for which we should judge the rationality of our
actions, not for their truth value, but their survival value. 

Life is a long game. Winning is judged by how long you can keep
playing. 


#+TITLE: More than Mere Indifference.


The Buddhist teaching of indifferenc to the events of fate strikes a
chord in Western Stoicism. 

The character Siddhartha in Hermen Hesse's Novel declares that
"I can think, I can wait, I can fast". And when his questioner finds
this incredulous, the ascetic defends his view: 

#+BEGIN_QUOTE: 
It is very good, sir. When a person has nothing to eat, fasting is
the smartest thing he could do. When, for example, Siddhartha hadn’t
learned to fast, he would have to accept any kind of service before
that day is up, whether it may be with you or wherever, because hunger
would force him to do so. But like this, Siddhartha can wait calmly,
he knows no impatience, he knows no emergency, for a long time he can
allow hunger to besiege him and can laugh about it. This, sir, is what
fasting is good for.
#+END_QUOTE:

Siddharthas Laughs. Troubles can't hurt him. He won't play someone's elses
game. 

The character of the stoics is even stronger. The stoics say f*** you
to fate. 


#+TITLE: Memory & Forgetfulness 

To be forgetful is to have a functioning mind. 

Everytime we remember, we revise what we remember. 

We can't possibly remember exactly 

We can't unthink or unexperience a thought or an event once it's
happened. 

And that cerates a cognitive distortion. 

Looking backwards fools us into thinking the future was knowable all
along. 

And makes us forget how we were thinking and feeling when the future
was still unknown. 

#+TITLE: Redundancy

How do we prepare for the worst, given that we don't know what the
next worst is?  

Consider that your reading this with two eyes. Or That many of the parts
of your body compensates for its fraility by suppling you with /a
backup/ is no mistake by Mother nature. 

Overspecialization and optimization are frail to the unknown. 
Limiting single points of failure. Like depending on a single
supplier, a single employee, or a single product to complete a task. 

Stockpiling is aggressively efficient. Having physical and functional
redundancies keeps you alive. Having multiple options is freedom. 



#+TITLE: Learning with Emotions, 

Modernity by definition removes the variability out of life. 

Curriculums suffers from one-size-fits-all effect. The mind's
attention 

#+BEGINQUOTE: 
There is one more ugly, more wicked, more filthy!
Although he makes neither great gestures nor great cries,
He would willingly make of the earth a shambles
And, in a yawn, swallow the world;
He is Ennui! — His eye watery as though with tears,
He dreams of scaffolds as he smokes his hookah pipe.
You know him reader, that refined monster,
— Hypocritish reader, — my fellow, — my brother!
#+ENDQUOTE 

-- Charles Baudelaire, Flowers of Evil. 

Notice when you a book starts to bore you. As soon as that's the case,
switch to another book. 

If schools wanted to resemble
real life, they would only care about the subject in which the stduent
has the  highest grade and ignore the others, In a convex world, the
average is of zero significance. 



#+TITLE: Decision Making and Procrastination 


Make Decisions as late as possible. 

When we wait to make decisions, we become more knowledgeable about the
situation. 

Time makes the obvious decision appear. 

We can't simply. 

--- 

Never convince yourself to do anything. 

No one ever 



#+TITLE: Time Filters Knowledge

Not all theories or beliefs are equally valuable. 

Ideas are selected on how well they help us survive. 

The judge of how well they help us survive is time. 

As time goes on, the longer an idea is exposed to the trial of
falsification. It is only a matter of time before someone with fatal
belief exits the gene pool. 

The longer an idea has been around, the longer it will be around. 

Read old books. 

If an idea that you deem "irrational"  has been around for a long
time, then you have the wrong definition of ratinoality. 

Mother Natrue does not make mistakes. Old books are not mistaken

/The burden of proof is on us/ 




#+TITLE: Preferences


Happiness can't be bought, so ignore those who are selling it and stop
pursuing it as a /thing I can buy/

That's because external circumstances- events outside of
ourselves- promise us happiness, and this is satisfying, that is,
until we get it. Once you get it, you stop wanting it. 

And new desires come to take its place. We trick ourselves while
chasing that comparison moment. 

Expectation leads to disappointment. 

Dependency on luxury turns into snobbery. But you do become slightly more
perturbed. You start complaining about tepid coffee, or poor
service. You become a bad tipper. Petty tyrany.

True happiness is restful sleep, frequent laughs, meals with friends,
afternoon naps, good coffee, gratitude, and a clear conscience.

if luxury is not creating more and more varied
options for life, you're doing it wrong. 

Rehearsed conversations, rehearsed laughs.  

Having Enough - knowing when enough is enough 


#+TITLE: Reinstating Dimensionality 
 


* The essence of Life is light volatility.
With too much noise, performance of systems suffer. But surprisingly,
/too little/ noise could be just as bad. Some noise is good and
necessary for health. Any complex system, the mind, the body,
information systems, etc. 

  1) Human bones are strengthened through episodic stress. Falling
    asleep is easier with background noise. 
  2) Interpersonal relationships are well maintained when problems (and
    conversations) are had early. 
  3) Innovation and Discovery. Innovation happen through aggressive
    trial and by accident, discovering a product or use of a product
    never seen before. Increase your exposures and fail
    early and cleanly. Creativity is your number of trials.
  4) The uberwealth of cities on the East Coast as a motivator
     compensates for the bad weather, lack of scenic Nature, and
     miserable train rides.


No food can compare to the food we get after an episode of hunger; and
no liquid will ever improve on the taste of water after a prolonged
period of thirst. The best days can be recovering a lost wallet or
phone. The greatest acts of kindness you expericnec may be from total
strangers. 

* Risk 
When we have something to lose, or risk failure, we become desparately
to find out as much as we can about a subject. Much like the pilot of
a plane is maximally paranoid or an  addict's cunning comes from to
procure drugs. Learn out of necessity. 



* Avoiding Boredom
Modernity by definition removes the variability out of life. 

Curriculums suffers from one-size-fits-all effect. The mind's
attention 

Notice when you a book starts to bore you. As soon as that's the case,
switch to another book. 

If schools wanted to resemble
real life, they would only care about the subject in which the stduent
has the  highest grade and ignore the others, In a convex world, the
average is of zero significance. 

     - /Avoiding Boredom/ If you get bored easily that means your
       /b***t/ detector is functioning properly. Evaluate curiosity
       daily, Read accordingly. Notice when you a book starts to bore
       you. As soon as that's the case, switch to another book. (This
       is where it is extremely helpful but not necessary to own a lot
       of books ) Don't read something that you need to speedread,
       don't watch a video that you have to watch at 2x, If you're not
       fully engaged or easily distracted, find a better way or don't
       do it. 

Fyodor Dostoevsky makes the case that the instinct for chance, for randomness,
such that man would take even the slightest variation over the
sweetest most comfortable routine:
 
#+BEGIN_QUOTE:
"Shower upon him every earthly blessing, drown him in a sea of
happiness, so that nothing but bubbles of bliss can be seen on the
surface; give him economic prosperity, such that he should have
nothing else to do but sleep, eat cakes and busy himself with the
continuation of his species, and even then out of sheer ingratitude,
sheer spite, man would play you some nasty trick. He would even risk
his cakes and would deliberately desire the most fatal rubbish, the
most uneconomical absurdity, simply to introduce into all this
positive good sense his fatal fantastic element."

#+END_QUOTE:
   
  2) /Leisure is Fertile without Distraction/ The mind is most
     intelligent while devoted to effortless activity. When freed
     from constraints, work, schedules, the mind discoveries
     opportunities that it didn't see before. As anyone who might have
     taken a shower before would realize. Go for a walk without a
     phone, without listening to music. [fn:4] 


*  /Diet and Exercise/ Diets & Exercise Regimens tax the body with
  chronic stressors. Gyms are sterilized environments that work one
  muscle at a time, making the part stronger at teh expense of the
  whole. Diets through modern constructions rely on strong willed
  moderation instead of randomized fasting and volume intake. To
  simulate natural exercise and dietary conditions, try Hiking on
  rocky trails with steep inclines. Deadlift your maxlift on a
  barbell. Farmer's Walk, OLympic Lift, clean press, squats,
  deadlift. No Machines. Never eat foods out of a box, and avoid modernized diet
  foods. Randomly skip meals, and work out when hungry. 
#+TITLE:  Not Caring About the Outcome 


1. /Personal Dignity/ 

Failure is felt by everyone, - no matter how great you are. 
At their lowest, in epic heroes face deep existential dread 
The mighty Achilles, or  Dante on his personal odyssey through
Hades, - they wish they were never born. 

They don't give up 
Because there is no such thing as failure. Only Death. 


There will always be more who lose than those who win. 
Risk Takers in any discipline can't fake 

Let us heed the words of poet emily Dickinson: 

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
Success is counted sweetest
By those who ne'er succeed.
To comprehend a nectar
Requires sorest need.

Not one of all the purple Host
Who took the Flag today
Can tell the definition
So clear of victory

As he defeated – dying –
On whose forbidden ear
The distant strains of triumph
Burst agonized and clear!
#+END_QUOTE
-- Emily Dickinson 

 Traditionally while the war was being fought the flag of each side
 were held up on the field. And holding the flag made you-- before
 anyone else-- the enemy's target. Don't let the flag fall. 

At the end of the day, we don't have much say over fate. But we decide
how we hold ourselves.  Should    fate turn against you, do not play
victim. Do not complain. Be worthy. 
don't change the rules just because they odds are against you.

For a soldier, for an entrepreneur, there is no failure, only
death. which is happening anyway. 

  
Life is about execution rather than purpose. Don't worry about who you
 are. You will be remembered for what you do. Always. 
It's not what you say, it's how you say it. 
Calling good to everything.  Life belongs to those who
 embrace it no matter what their plight. Life is bigger than you or
 me. Life is happening to you right now. Hope is like banging on the
 locked door trying to get out, opening it only to find that /the door
 opens outward/

Eternal Reccurance - 

3. 

/The Promise of Marshmallows/ In popular psychology there's 'the
      Marshmallow Test' or something, which participants choose
      between a single marshmallow at the the start or can opt to wait
      15 minutes to receive an additional one. The truth about life is
      that we aren't guaranteed the second marshmallow. Carefully
      consider what is worth delaying gratification for. With things
      like feeling happiness, having a romantic partner, getting a
      Nobel or A Booker where luck plays a large role (hidden or
      forgotten). 


 /Abandoning Hope/ Try to kill anything called hope in you. You never
  want to put yourself in a sutiation where you wish very badly for
  something specific to happen to you, an event where tomorrow would
  suddenly make a big difference for the rest of your life. 
  - say, the outcome of a job interview, a lawsuit, winning the lotto,
    meeting a significant other, getting a paper accepted, have gold
     rise, your boss dies, or other events that can markedly change your life. If this is the case for
    you are royally enslaved to circumstances. 
  - Take good events when they happen, but don't depend on them like a
    loser. 
  - Organize yourself in a way to not have to dream for a better
    tomorrow or day after.
  - Life is happening to you right now. Hope is like banging on the
    locked door trying to get out, opening it only to find that /the door
    opens outward/

It's foolish to complain you
       don't have enough time. We shouldn't know when the week begins
       or ends. Not being prisoner to a schedule ro calendar, an alarm clock or
       wristwatch. Rehearsed conversations, rehearsed laughs.  if
       luxury is not creating more and more varied options for life,
       you're doing it wrong. 

It's hard to lose playing your own game. 
#+TITLE: Community and FRiendshp  


- Playing your own Game 
Everyone is trying to be the
  best, or top 1% percent. Few are trying to do what they like
  regardless of what everyone else does.  Competition is for chasing
  the preferences of others; playing someone else’s game.  Their rules, their
  way, their game. There are no rules, no boundaries. Play your game;
  not theirs. You have a real life if and only if you do not compete
  with anyone in any of your pursuits. 


- Money and Friends / INtellect / Status 


As with the Sour Grapes from
Aesop’s fable, fate can hold the grapes out of reach, but we get to
decide whether or not they are sour. Rejecting the grapes outright is
in itself its own more rewarding. It is hard to lose at your own
game. 


Stop doing somethign when it becoems effortful. 

A community is where 
#+TITLE: There is no "You" 

The central flaw with optimizing is that "everything else" ceases to
exist, and makes people think the individual, not the collective, is
the true unit. 

The collective is more important than the individual. We are more
important than me. 

Not just the loss of your life, but one that lies
in a broader set of people, one that includes a family, a community, a
tribe, a fraternity. 



#+TITLE: What we don't know .

Frederick Douglass, in /Autobiography/ crystalized the vital
importance of what is considered now basic education: reading. 

Born into slavery, he learned that denied Basic literay was denial of
freedom.

It layed the brickwork to getting free. 

Acquire as many books as you can possibly afford. 

Steve Jobs said in an interview that he realized that most people in
creative industries suffer from a lack of diverse experiences. 

Broaden your inputs. 

Be Hungry for learning everythnig. 


#+TITLE: Trial & Error and Computational Irreducibility

The biggest changes to our quality of life came from tinkerers. 

Entrepreneurs, inventors, Designers and Artists, 

Whatever your Creative pursuits lead you, -- the biggest payoffs come
from being maximally experimental. 

 Aggressive Trial and Error leads to discovery. 

Creativity is your number of trials. 

Stephen Wolfram has this idea of computational irreducibility - which,
in this context, means /you don't know what doing each trial will take
you until you do it/ 

Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again. 

That's not the case with volatile domains. 


Emphasizing the necessity of unsuccessful trials in creative process,
Popper identifies two distinguishing traits of creative minds:

 - Persistence, coming from an intense interest in the problem,
   guaranteeing that a large number of hypotheses (solutions) are
   tried

 - A wider range of sources from which the trials (ideas) are
   selected, coming from the variety of one’s experience and
   interactions

Human mind has a hard time understanding nonlinearities. - Water has a
certain boiling point, and so do we. 


How far are you willing to go? 





/On Cicero arriving at the tomb of Archimedes/
In Cicero's /On Old Age/, he recounts seeing the tomb of archimedes,
the godfather of Mathematics, shrouded in overgrowth. 

As the old saying goes, Those who fail to learn what our ancestors
know are doomed to repeat it. 

More importantly, let us focus on what they /did/, not what they
thought they knew or what historians thought they thought they knew. 

Mother Nature leaves hints, traces. Instincts. The obvious answers are
hidden in plain sight. 

In practice, Our ancestors focused on survival. Our ancestors listened
to Mother nature. We are foolish not to heed these lessons. 

#+TITLE: Economy Of Beliefs. 


Ratinoality sanctifies Truth and Falsehood. 

In reality, Truth and Falsehood are both irrelevant. 

There are opinions about matters of no consequence. 
When conseqeunce is all that matters. 

Opinions just get you into arguments. 
There is a differenc between winning an arguement and winning. 

Hold less beliefs - even less in belief itself. 
It doesn't matter as much as you believe. 
#+TITLE: What Modernity Silences


Modernity shuts out qualities of Nature that are fatally ignored. 
- commoditization over realtionships - 
- life is more random than we think. 
- sterilizes the randomness of real life with simplified models -
  gyms, schools, prediction models, etc. Modernity seeks to deprive us of life's innate sense of variability
and randomness. When forced to overcompensate we become better off
when not under such conditions.
- Talk is a lot cheaper. /Looking good is more important than doing good/
- product for process - what makes you a hero is how you fight, not if
  you win. 

#+TITLE:  Subtractive Knowledge 


  - 2. What We Know Best :: Knowledge becomes robust by
    necessarily knowing what is wrong and avoiding it. We get smarter by
    learning what not to do and by avoiding ignorance. We know what is
    wrong better than what is right. Avoid unhappiness than it is to
    pursue happiness. Avoiding ignorant people is easier than
    surrounding yourself with 'intelligent' ones. \\


#+TITLE: The Art of Being Human 

#+BEGINQUOTE
This, I submit, is the freedom of a real education, of learning how to
be well-adjusted. You get to consciously decide what has meaning and
what doesn’t. You get to decide what to worship. Because here’s
something else that’s weird but true: in the day-to-day trenches of
adult life, there is actually no such thing as atheism. There is no
such thing as not worshipping. Everybody worships. The only choice we
get is what to worship. And the compelling reason for maybe choosing
some sort of god or spiritual-type thing to worship–be it JC or Allah,
be it YHWH or the Wiccan Mother Goddess, or the Four Noble Truths, or
some inviolable set of ethical principles–is that pretty much anything
else you worship will eat you alive. If you worship money and things,
if they are where you tap real meaning in life, then you will never
have enough, never feel you have enough. It’s the truth. Worship your
body and beauty and sexual allure and you will always feel ugly. And
when time and age start showing, you will die a million deaths before
they finally grieve you. On one level, we all know this stuff
already. It’s been codified as myths, proverbs, clichés, epigrams,
parables; the skeleton of every great story. The whole trick is
keeping the truth up front in daily consciousness.”

#+ENDQUOTE

-- David Foster Wallace, Kenyon College Commencement Speech 



Virtue is an anntribute that brings admiration but cannot elicit
envious resentment or jealousy. 

systems cannot really optimize. 

success isnt being teh top of the hierarchy, it is standing outside of
all hierarchies. 

the notion of acchievement devalues life into a tournament. 

seccess performance and so called excellence and other goals in modern
culture harms others and belittles them. Virtues do not. 


The more someone identifies with a profession or an "accomplishment"
such as an award, the less human he will be (in the classical
sense). In virtue ethics, the only "excellence" worth attaining is
that of "being human", with all what it entails (honor, courage,
service, satisfaction of public & private duties, willingness to face
death, etc.); "achievements" are reductions and alienations for lower
forms of life.

IN ANCIENT ROME this was a privilege reserved for the patrician
class. They were able to engage in professional activities without
directly identifying with them: to write books, lead armies, farm
land, or transact without being a writer, general, farmer, or
merchant, but "a man (*vir* rather than *homo*) who" writes, commands,
farms or transacts, as a side activity.


THE OLYMPICS
There used to be a distinction between an athlete representing virtus (human-ness*) and ἀρετή (the quality of being what you are made to be) on one hand, and, on the other the circus acrobat selling uniqueness and deformity.  Mediterranean ideals, as opposed to the Egypto-Babylonian ones, were about scale and balance: even the Gods were brought down to human scale. (Yet homines sumus, non dei: we are men, not gods)
Today's Olympics, by dint of specialization and overoptimization, thanks to the media and the huge financing involved, have transformed the athlete into a circus acrobat, a mutant selling deformities. 
Let me insist: anything overoptimized, or even barely optimized, is no longer human.
Hominem te esse memento!
manliness in PC terms.



For Homer, human life is a succession of contigencies. all good things
are vulnerable to fortune. 

Aesthetics, erudation, , risk taking 

Explore protocols for dealing with a random world.

The stoics advocated focusing on behavior, rather than result.

 The Pyrrhonian
skeptics advocated the need to remain skeptical about the consequence
of any action, as we are not able to gauge whether it should have
beneficial or adverse effects.

ACts of courage - standing up against fraudsters. starting
businesses. 

In virtue ethics, the only excellence worth attaining is being human.

The goal of life was not "succesS" utility, utility of wealth, but
being human. 

Old Versions of morialty, from religion, to philosophy, have a chanec
because they've been around for a very, very long time. 

To live well, we need Virtues. Virtues cannot elicit envy or jealous
resentment from others. Symmetry between you as an individual and the
collective. 
 
Virtue can't be taken away from you 
